# Points to check when Oracle database is in hung state
1. Check your alert log to see if the database has reported any errors, which may indicate why the database is hanging.  
2. See if you can get an AWR or ASH report or query some of the ASH views. You may notice events such as hard parses at the top of the Load Profile section of the AWR report, indicating that this is what is slowing down the database.  
3. A single ad hoc query certainly has the potential to bring an entire database to its knees. See if you can identify one or more very poorly performing SQL statements that may be leading to the hung (or a very poorly performing) database.  
4. Check the database for blocking locks as well as latch contention.  
5. Check the server’s memory usage as well as CPU usage. Make sure the sessions aren’t stalling because you’ve sized the PGA too low.  
6. Don’t overlook the fact that a scary-looking database hang may be caused by something as simple as the filling up of all archive log destinations. If the archive destination is full, the database will hang, and new user connections will fail. You can, however, still connect as the SYS user, and once you make room in the archive destination by moving some of the archived redo log files, the database becomes accessible to the users.  
7. Check the Flash Recovery Area (FRA). A database also hangs when it’s unable to write Flashback Database logs to the recovery area. When the FRA fills up, the database won’t process new work and it won’t spawn new database connections. You can fix this problem by making the recovery area larger with the alter system set db_recovery_file_dest_size command.  
